# Multimedia Essay: How Digital Media Affects Student Activism at the University of Oregon: A Toolkit to Embracing Student Voices and Improving Equity
## Research Question: How has digital media like social media platforms and other digital media outlets impacted the way students and scholars absorb and act upon activism regarding social issues on college campuses?
### Abstract
  In this project, I want to explore the effects of digital media on student activism at the University of Oregon. I will be analyzing a collection of historical archives and records of a student activist group, *S.W.I.N.E.*, that took place during the 1960s and 70s, comparing their recognition to more recent activist groups on campus. This will also be directed as insight toward scholars, highlighting the significance of creating an inclusive community on campus. The main comparison that will be analyzed and discussed in this project is the role of technology and how it has assisted or deconstructed the progression of generating awareness and creating visible changes within college communities. I will also be analyzing the role of technology outside of student activism, addressing the ways in which false media prohibits our ability to trust our peers. The role of digital literacy allows us to understand how skepticism toward recent media outrage regarding the UO campus union, is discussed further in a case study. Receiving national recognition allows audiences to gauge a better understanding of current activism on campus and the magnitude of leverage it holds because of media. 
 
These individual areas of research will allow audiences to better understand why media can act as both a tool and an obstacle when trying to maintain a grasp on the ever-evolving society in which we live. I want to bring awareness to the benefits of technology on a college campus when used progressively and efficiently by students who have the potential to change the tone of political and social discussions beyond campus walls.

### Introduction
Technology has had a drastic effect on the way we consume and generate digital media and such advancements are responsible for the information we receive through our devices every day. The capability of creating an online community, spreading information efficiently, and bringing together like-minded individuals from any differentiating background is a small portion of the connection that technology has provided recent generations of students. The University of Oregon has had a long history of student activism due to its establishment on Kalapuyan land, where Native American tribes initially settled. This naturally brought a lot of attention to the mistreatment of Native Americans through the schools’ education, naming one of the freshman residency halls after the Kalapuya people. Several indigenous peoples course studies are also offered at the University as a way to generate awareness amongst the student body. These honorable mentions were some of the initial ways in which the University of Oregon’s student body became passionate about using their voices to generate change in the conversation about multiculturalism within student life. 
  
Growing up with technology, this generation of college students has become well aware of the benefits which technology provides. Using social media platforms to keep up with their friends and family, younger generations tend to underestimate the power of unified voices on public platforms. This potential power has generated subconscious awareness for our educators as to how the information they present will be perceived and acted upon. There is great room for error in terms of teaching style, vocabulary, and pre-existing beliefs that impact the way students absorb information. With the addition of advanced technology, now students have been given the power to change the tone of the conversation, present information originally, and directly act upon the given topic. The majority of my historical research will take place between the 1960s and 70s, a period of time in the University of Oregon’s history when students' voices were begging to be acknowledged.
  
### S.W.I.N.E.
 *S.W.I.N.E*, which stands for Students Wildly Indignant about Nearly Everything, was a student-led organization created in 1965 at the University of Oregon whose founding ideals stemmed from mockery and satirization of political protest groups. Inspired by cartoonist Al Capp L’il Abner, the anti-activist group created illustrated comic-like newsletters and stood for nearly 4 years under the University of Oregon’s administration. Their work included publishing satirical articles with corresponding cartoons that spoofed current political cultures and climates. Receiving a wide range of reactions from the surrounding community for “protesting everything until everything is demolished and destroyed”, the organization gained a great deal of attention for the sole purpose of being so radically different (Jim Hill, Daily Emerald, 1966). The idea behind this student pursuit was to impose the domination of the “radical middle”, a political stance that held no logical means to end any specific injustice. With internalized goals to be “the first in a network of chapters on campuses throughout the nation”, *S.W.I.N.E*. wanted to make a large-scale change (Oregon Daily Emerald 1966). 
  
 While the organization only lasted until 1969, students were able to gather and record findings which can be located in the school's special collections and university archives. Findings within the historical archive include newspaper articles, student contracts, copies of artworks, and other insightful glimpses into what student activism once looked like at the University of Oregon. Using this student-led group as a primary example of an organization that would benefit from advanced digital media, I want to explore more recent student activist groups and how they are effectively using the media to generate awareness for their cause. I am also curious to explore how a student-led organization group like *S.W.I.N.E* would be received in the media today.
 




You have the option to use a richly formatted Markdown file as your visual aid and accessibility copy for your symposium presentation -- or you can replace this file (and links to it elsewhere in the repository) with a PowerPoint. 

If you're curious how a Markdown file could function as an alternative to traditional slides, you can [check out this presentation Prof. Burkert delivered recently](https://github.com/mattieburkert/asecs23/blob/main/ASECS-2023-Burkert.md).
